and now let's see how the same group of
soldiers enhance their ability to
survive in freezing weather by teaming
up with Canadian Rangers from 5c RPG a
met novel cameraman Coupe de cerdo
travail and Ikki perfectly Rangers
Kennedy in sync mg PFC I've made Emilio
leader that's the Silvie part of what we
hear at the abandoned airfield in
Churchill Falls new Flynn Labrador we're
in just a few moments
soldiers are actually going to get some
tips on how to build fire on top of snow
and as you can see last night they
weren't too successful but tonight
they'll do better to know how to survive
in this kind of a climate and not
everybody can come out of a city and
live in the woods I guess and be
comfortable probably freezing this your
main enemy here is the cold first thing
we do is look for an area's got dry wood
and we'll win in the wood of the area to
set up our tents and if you got drywall
in your tent you live in some harsh
weather today we're gonna go out in the
woods and and we're gonna do a little
bit of survival training with them my
expectations up here probably that when
love those kids go out of air deal
really appreciate the area and they
probably had a little bit of fear when
the common well barely 20 below you know
this really is not all that cold when
you get when you get yourself set up and
you got like your wood and everything
you set up properly it doesn't matter
our coldest you know they're the subject
matter experts on the rope
the land and they give so much to the
young soldiers in not only inner
experience but also their their
capabilities to access pioneers because
we don't we don't have that capability
anymore guys with chainsaws and helping
us build and construct our snow defences
it was it was invaluable you know
building a fire in the north is not an
easy thing to do
so the strangers spent a great deal of
mount of time teaching the young
soldiers all the steps from laying down
the green wood to preparing the kindling
those are the whole nightmares yeah and
after you do build up a fairly
substantial size fire it will melt the
snow underneath you and it will
eventually collapse we've been working a
lot with Canadian Rangers and they were
teaching us how to light fires how to
snare some food in case we get separated
or lost in the Arctic and we have to
survive on our own with a Canadian
Ranger that is made as possible for the
soldiers here to learn how to survive on
the land and now the soldiers could
actually cook their food boil their
water on top of the snow reporting for
army news I'm sergeant Todd Barry